**SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS**

A strategically focused Certified Project Management Professional and
ScrumMaster with an extensive IT background. A customer-centric
individual with proven management, leadership and communications skills.
Utilizes background in software development, database administration,
systems engineering and project management, as well as relationship
building skills to build consensus and remove unnecessary barriers to
project teams. Experience in Government, Healthcare, Higher Education,
Defense, Secondary Mortgage Markets and Telecommunications fields.

# EDUCATION & CERTIFICATIONS

**Certified ScrumMaster (CSM),** Scrum Alliance

**Project Management Professional (PMP),** Project Management Institute

**ITIL Foundation**, Global Knowledge

**Master of Business Administration**, Pamplin College of Business,
Virginia Tech

**Bachelor of Science, Management Science (Decision Support Systems),**
Virginia Tech

# SKILLS & COMPETENCIES

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Program           Project           Portfolio         Change Management
  Management        Management        Management        
  ----------------- ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
  RFP Bidding and   Business Process  Stakeholder       Project
  Evaluation        Improvements      Management &      Estimation and
                                      Communication     Feasibility

  Agile             JIRA              Confluence        Systems
  Methodologies                                         Engineering

  Vendor Management Resource          Risk Management   PowerBI
                    Management                          

  GitHub            Vercel                              

                                                        
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

# PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

**IT Cybersecurity Specialist, United States Coast Guard, Portsmouth, VA
08/2020 -- Present**

Serve as the Technical Manager/Engineering Lead for the modernization of
the mission critical Search and Rescue Operations system from legacy
desktop to a web and cloud-based system for internal and international
customers.

- Serve as the Contract Officer's Representative (COR) for multiple
  projects totaling over \$30 million

- Serve as the Technical Representative for multiple annual software
  license renewals

- Champion Agile Methodologies for modernization projects

**Portfolio Project Manager, City of Virginia Beach, Virginia Beach, VA
10/2015 -- 08/2020**

Portfolio management of all Public Safety IT programs/projects.
Collaborate with the City's executive management to ensure the portfolio
reflects the city's goals and objectives for Public Safety. Serves in
various program and project management roles for the multi-year, \$19
million Integrated Public Safety program, which involves technical
stakeholders as well as agency stakeholders from various agencies (Fire,
Police, EMS, 911, Sheriff).

- Manage a \$30,000,000 portfolio as well as project budgets up to
  \$19,000,000

- Manage contractor and vendor project managers technical, managerial
  and financial performance

- Lead implementation to upgrade the City's 911 dispatch system, which
  involved getting multiple stakeholders to move past their differences

- Lead Cloud First strategy projects to modernize the application
  portfolio from legacy to cloud based applications

- Champion agile processes to the Public Safety Community of Interest

**Independent Consultant, A L Fox Consulting, LLC, Chesapeake, VA 1/2015
-- 10/2015**

Provided project management contract/consultant work in the Hampton
Roads area

**Senior Project Manager, Anthem, Remote 4/2014 -- 12/2014**

Was the intra-departmental project management lead for the Corporate
Clinical Quality Management department.

- Lead the effort to merge two different QM departments into one,
  including the onboarding of 80+ associates across the country

- Created project request/intake process to create a formal process to
  request project help and to also help define the parameters of
  projects within the department

- Worked to gain buy-in from various SMEs to create a process for a
  monthly department dashboard for upper management

**Project Manager, Anthem, Remote 4/2012 -- 4/2014**

Portfolio and project management for the National Accounts and Network
Development departments. Managed and tracked multiple projects from
pre-RFP stage to post implementation for both new business and existing
market efforts.

Liaison between functional teams and business development to gather
information related to RFP responses as well as the implementation
office after award. Worked exclusively with remote teams.

- Managed department project portfolio for upper management

- Assembled and lead virtual implementation teams for new business
  implementations

- Served as a mentor/coach for account executives in project management
  on projects that I did not lead

- Developed methodology and educated team members on project management
  as the first project manager hired into the department

**Project Manager, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA 11/2009 --
4/2012**

Designed, implemented and managed a flexible IT Project Management
Office for the university's IT department. Trained and mentored the
university community on project management. Provided IT portfolio
management to IT executives.

- First project manager hired by the IT department

- Created tools and templates for the PMO, including the PMO charter and
  framework

- Developed proposal for a hosted portfolio and project management
  system

- Managed ODUMobile project which involved coordination across many
  departments throughout campus

**Senior Analyst, The Moore Group, Portsmouth, VA 3/2009 -- 7/2009**

Ensured the successful development, deployment, implementation and
operation of Navy and DoD Maintenance and Logistics community software
tools managed by NAVSEA 04, including Project Sequencing and Scheduling
(PSS), which evaluates project tasking and production work information
compiled by the Project Planning and Management (PPM) process and
develops a technically correct and strategically accurate analytical
model of the project (Project Network). Clearance: Secret

**Software Development Project Manager, SAIC, Alexandria, VA 7/2008 --
2/2009**

Was responsible for the performance of technical projects at the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a SOA environment in
accordance with contract requirements and company policies, procedures
and guidelines. Directed and supervised all support resources for the
performance of project assignments and activities. Functional lead over
requirements analysis and testing teams. Prepared performance reviews
and status reports. Provided level of efforts for add-on business as
well as assisted in new business development proposals. Clearance:
Public Trust

- Managed up to six different projects to in various stages, ranging
  from a FFP project \<\$200K to a \$1.5 million T&M contract with up to
  15 resources, including subcontractors

- Established processes to the development team to help make their
  efforts more efficient and organized

- Was able to hire several testers to staff a short notice task order
  within two weeks

**OTHER POSITIONS HELD: Systems Engineer, Database Administrator,
Developer, Helpdesk Administrator**
